sudo apt-get install testdisk
testdisk & sleuthkit are both file system based
rest are not filesystem based

winhex is a signature based tool (hexeditor)

it is not necessary that only data is deleted .. there can be option that partition is deleted .. so to recover data through that deleted partition

different types of partition
primary partition — 
extended partition —
logical partition —
delted partition —

disk can be physically divided into chunks called partition (primary) .. when done physically .. it have max limit .. and depends on file system in that drive .. DOS file system — 4 partition
GPT file system — >4 (128 physical partition)

so DOS introduced logical 
particular physical partition labelled as extended .. and that extended can be divided into logical further partition .. and extended can be divided into any no of logical partition

sudo testdisk
> it will ask for log file to create a file or to append in previously created log file
DOS partitioning scheme - Intel

then analyse — to detect and find out the lost partition
then it will list all the partition of the files
P, L, E, D … P - Primary, L - Logical, E - Extended, D — Deleted

it will check the master boot record and then will tell the partition file system use
also along with this it will tell no of sectors per track, mismatches, head/cylinder, chs, echs

it is getting all the information from partition table
partition table is stored in MBR
if the Master boot record (MBR) is corrupt .. so it is difficult 

so testdisk have facility .. it can create its own MBR of that device if the mbr is corrupted


see the files of that partition
go to undelete option .. then u can see the files .. if the file color is red .. then it means it is deleted file

BIOS parameter record — it contains lot of info for a file .. and it has one byte which show that weather the file is deleted or not 

then choose the address


sudo testdisk pd_image2.dd — to use the above tool on an image file



for windows tool name is photorec .. on linux it is testdisk

testdisk can be used to create the image of the device also



winhex .. it will help to see the raw bytes
all exxecutables are called elf .. as they link themselves with binaries and dlls

we get malware in the form of elf .. 
